# C-Robot-maze


# Run program:

Download all files, and run command 1 then 2:
(1)	gcc -o main main.c robot.c maze.c tools.c graphics.c floyd_alg.c
(2)	./main | java -jar drawApp-2.0.jar


# General:

The program is divided into main, robot, maze, Floyd’s algorithm, and tools, along with the graphics files, everything gets put into the main file, which shows a clear procedure of how the program runs. The only file that should get edited is the config file.


# Maze:

The maze is generated by a very intuitive algorithm: At the start all blocks on the map are obstacle blocks, the program uses an imaginary robot, which starts from the starting point, with a given weighted direction (more likely to tend towards the finishing point, in the program they are represented as accumulative weights, e.g. {2,4,6}), and it will move around randomly. Every block that the imaginary robot passes through turns into a path block. This step can be repeated to create multiple paths. Then I provided another two points on the map, with the same idea, a different weighted direction. There are also extra functions that I added to make it more like a maze, for instance, for every 3×3 blocks, if all of them are path blocks, then the centre block turns into an obstacle block.


# Robot:

There are two algorithms implemented in the robot, a random algorithm and Floyd’s algorithm. The random algorithm has a weighted direction, and it moves in random directions until it reaches the finishing point. Whereas for Floyd’s algorithm, it analyses the map, finds the shortest path, and it is done.


# Config file:

Parameters of the program are stored in the config file and can be adjusted, this includes the size of the grid, where the maze is at within the window, the difficulty level of the maze and the algorithm. Notes about editing the config file.
-> The format of each line has to be: explanation + range/options + “:” + (space) + value, there should be only one space in between the colon and value, and nothing else should be added after the value
-> E.g. (1-3) means the user can enter 1, or 2, or 3 as the value, (r / f) means the user can enter “r” or “f” as the value (“R” and “F” is also allowed)
-> If the user inputs a value outside the range, the program will autocorrect to the closest value
-> Don’t change anything before the “: ”, anything randomly added or removed can lead to the program not running or crashes
-> The value for y border needs to be smaller (≈0) if map size is >600

For different computer specs the output could possibly differ.
